OKTA- 1016057 - Terraform OIG Guide (#5828)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/terraform-oig-resources/main/index.md

---
title: Manage Okta Identity Governance resources using Terraform
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Learn how to create, import, and modify Okta Identity Governance resources using Terraform automation.
layout: Guides
---
Learn how to create, import, and modify Okta Identity Governance resources using Terraform automation.

#### Learning outcomes

- Define and create an <StackSnippet snippet="resource-name" inline/> resource using Terraform.
- Modify an existing <StackSnippet snippet="resource-name" inline/> resource managed by Terraform.
- Import <StackSnippet snippet="resource-name" inline/> resource from Okta into your Terraform state.

#### What you need
- Familiarity with the Terraform terms, such as configuration, resources, state, and commands.

> - An Okta org with the OIG SKU enabled.

Reviewer: We don't use "SKU" in our public documentation.

- A Terraform configuration that can access your Okta org. See [Okta provider configuration](#okta-provider-configuration).
- An Okta user account with the super administrator role.
- Terraform 1.8.5 or later.

> - Okta Terraform provider 6.0.0 or later.

Reviewer: Based on this changelog (https://github.com/okta/terraform-provider-okta/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md), a lot of OIG resources were added much later. Up until 6.5?

> > **Note:** The instructions on this page are for the **<StackSnippet snippet="resource-name" inline/>** protocol. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The instructions on this page are for the **<StackSnippet snippet="resource-name" inline/>** resource. <br>
```

---
title: Manage Okta Identity Governance Resources using Terraform
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Learn how to create, import, and modify Okta Identity Governance (OIG) resources using Terraform automation.
layout: Guides
---
Learn how to create, import, and modify Okta Identity Governance (OIG) resources using Terraform automation.

#### Learning outcomes

- Define and create OIG resources using Terraform.
- Modify existing OIG resources managed by Terraform.
- Import existing OIG resources from Okta into your Terraform state.

#### What you need
- Familiarity with the Terraform terms, such as configuration, resources, state, and commands.
- An Okta org is subscribed to [Okta Identity Governance](https://www.okta.com/products/identity-governance/).
- A Terraform configuration that can access your Okta org. See [Okta provider configuration](#okta-provider-configuration).
- An Okta user account with the **Super Administrator** role.
- Terraform 1.8.5 or later.
- Okta Terraform provider 6.2.0 or later.

### Overview

> Okta Identity Governance (OIG) allows stakeholders to manage user access resources such as apps and groups through features such as Access Requests, Certifications campaigns, Entitlements. Using Terraform, you can automate the lifecycle of these resources to ensure that users have the relevant access they need, when they need it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Okta Identity Governance (OIG) allows stakeholders to manage user resources like apps and groups through features such as Access Requests, access certification campaigns, and entitlements. Using Terraform, you can automate the lifecycle of these resources to ensure that users have the right level of access when they need it. 
```

**Note**: You can only manage Generally Available (GA) OIG resources using Terraform. Beta and Early Access (EA) resources aren’t currently supported.

### Set up your Terraform files

For guidance on organizing your files, see [setting up a typical Okta Terraform configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/main/#configure-a-basic-okta-terraform-configuration). Consider organizing your Terraform code in a way that groups related resources together. For example, you could create a Terraform file called `governance.tf` that contains your apps, bundles, or entitlement definitions.

#### Add or confirm the API scopes

> Your Terraform integration requires the appropriate OAuth scopes that depend on the specific resource you’re managing. The specific scopes required for each resource are listed in the Okta [Identity Governance API documentation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/iga/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Terraform integration requires the appropriate OAuth scopes for the resource that you’re managing. The scopes that are required for each resource are listed in the Okta [Identity Governance API documentation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/iga/).
```

In this sample, the scopes required for managing campaigns include:
- okta.governance.accessCertifications.manage
- okta.governance.accessCertifications.read

**Note**: To grant scopes in the Admin Console and to include them in your Terraform code, see the guides on [enabling your API service app for Terraform access](/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/) and [setting up a typical Okta Terraform configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/).

### Okta provider configuration

Configure the Okta Terraform provider in your Terraform configuration files. This configuration involves setting up credentials with relevant permissions to manage entitlements within your Okta org.

```bash

    terraform {
      required_providers {
        okta = {
          source  = "okta/okta"
          version = ">= 6.0.0"
      }
    }
    provider "okta" {
      org_name  = var.okta_org_name
    variable "okta_org_name" {
      description = "Your Okta org name (e.g., 'trial-12345678.okta.com')."
      type        = string
      sensitive   = true
    }

>     variable "okta_api_token" {

Reviewer: @manmohan-shaw-okta : Question about `okta_api_token` - is this the same as the `SSWS` API key? If it is, then the instructions on scopes conflict with using the key because API keys are associated with the admin user who created them, not with OAuth scopes.

Author: Checked with Aditya Anand and updated code block.

      description = "Your Okta API token with relevant permissions."
      type        = string
      sensitive   = true
    }
```

### Prepare your Okta Org
**Note**: This section is applicable only if you’re managing app-specific resources, such as entitlements.

Before creating app-specific resources, you must enable **Entitlement Management** on the target app in your Okta org:

1. In the Admin Console, go to your apps list.
2. Select the relevant app.
3. In the **General** tab, locate **Identity Governance** and select **Edit**.

> 4. Select **Enable** from the **Entitlement Management** dropdown menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Select **Enable** from the **Entitlement management** dropdown menu.
```

5. Select **Save**.

> ### Manage Resources

Reviewer 2: Can you add a line or two of text between these two headings?

#### Resource arguments

> Use the relevant resource schema, in this sample, the [Campaigns schema](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/campaign#schema), to create and update relevant resources. See the **Schema** section of the relevant resources in the [Okta Terraform Provider Registry documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the relevant resource schema to create and update relevant resources. This example uses the [Campaigns schema](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/campaign#schema).  See the **Schema** section for a resource in the [Okta Terraform Provider Registry documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest).
```

      resource_type                        = "APPLICATION"
      include_all_entitlements_and_bundles = false
    }
  }

  principal_scope_settings {
    type                      = "USERS"
    include_only_active_users = false
  }

  reviewer_settings {
    type                   = "USER"
    reviewer_id            = okta_user.test.id
    self_review_disabled   = true
    justification_required = true
    bulk_decision_disabled = true
  }

  notification_settings {
    notify_reviewer_when_review_assigned      = false
    notify_reviewer_at_campaign_end           = false
    notify_reviewer_when_overdue              = false
    notify_reviewer_during_midpoint_of_review = false
    notify_review_period_end                  = false
  }

  remediation_settings {
    access_approved = "NO_ACTION"
    access_revoked  = "NO_ACTION"
    no_response     = "NO_ACTION"
  }
}
```
> **Note**: For resource-specific examples, see the [Example Usage](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/campaign#example-usage) section of the relevant resources in the [Okta Terraform Provider Registry documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest).

> 2. Run the `terraform plan` command. The output provides a preview of the changes Terraform make to your infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run the `terraform plan` command. The output provides a preview of your infrastructure's Terraform changes.
```

3. Run the `terraform apply` command to provision the resource.
4. Type `yes` when prompted to complete the creation.

#### Import existing objects to Terraform

You can import existing OIG objects into Terraform using the import function. For more information on importing objects into Terraform, see [Import existing Okta objects into Terraform](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-import-existing-resources/main/).

**Note**: Ensure that you have the ID of the resource you want to import. You can retrieve this ID from the Admin Console or by using the [Okta Identity Governance API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/iga/).

> 1. Create a resource block in your Terraform file to host the object you’re importing. The configuration must match the current state of the object in Okta.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a resource block in your Terraform file to host the object that you want to import. The configuration must match the state of the object in Okta.
```

> 2. Run the command available in the **Import** section of the relevant resources in the [Okta Terraform Provider Registry documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest). For example, the [Import Campaigns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/campaign#import) resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open the **Example Usage** page for the resource (for example: [Import Campaigns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/campaign#import)) and scroll to the **Import** section. Run the command line that it provides.
```
